Inheritence-based, turn-based + QTE game inside of Unity 2D

[Player]
The player can attack on their turn.
During the boss's turn, the player has the option to dodge the attack.
Each time the player successfully dodge, their dodgeCount will +1 (need a way to track if the player did actually dodge the attack).
Once the boss turns end, if the player has dodgeCount of >0, the player will automatically launch a counter attack (attackPower * dodgeCount).

[Boss]
Boss have X amount of weaknesses (minimum of 3, max of 6)
Out of the selected weaknesses, the boss will have 1 weakness that gives HUGE multiplier called "The Only One".

Boss can attack on their turn
Based on animation asset, boss will have 3 possible patterns of attack.Example: One of the animation is a right arm swing, at a certain frame an animation event will SetActive(true) a trigger collider that covers 50% of the screen, depending on which arm is swung. 
The collider should automatically detect if the player is inside the collider and trigger a damage event. 
The collider should be set to false after 0.5 seconds (or whatever time it takes for the animation to finish).
Need some sort of sensor here to track if the player "dodged" this attack.

Boss receive more damage if the player has a trait that match it weakness
Boss have a display under their health bar of what trait is their weakness (traits will initially be displayed as ?)
If the player has a trait that match the boss's weakness, the player will be able to see the weakness of the boss (the ? will be replaced with the trait name)

[Game loop]
Player will control Hero

At the start of the game, Player will be prompt to choose a "Trait" for the Hero to acquire (this can be like: Light, Fire, Physical, Magic, etc.)
The boss will have X of weaknesses that are randomized from the Player's trait.

If the Hero is killed when fighting the boss, the player can choose 2nd Generation Hero who inherited the trait of the previous Hero and pick 1 more. 
Example: Generation 3 inherits the traits of the previous 2 plus 1 more trait for the Player to choose.
This process continues until the player kills the boss OR have reached Generation (+ 1 of number of weaknesses the boss) have. 
Once the player has reached Generation (+ 1 of number of weaknesses the boss) and they failed to kill the boss, Game Over.
